by the time my wife and I passed away we
will end up donating close to 100 but I
do hold most my cash I'm not the most
generous person I'm not trying to paint
myself well to be a saint I'm not that
I'm capitalist just being transparent I
love making money I love making money
for the sport of it and I don't know why
but I can't stop
be a digital partner we at productive
insights are delighted and proud to
welcome back Neil Patel from
npdigital.com and today we're going to
talk about profitable scaling artificial
intelligence content marketing and lots
more so welcome back Neil to the
productive insights podcast
thank you for having me oh I just got
back from I just got back from the UK
wow you've been traveling a lot and
actually I was watching a conversation
you had with Matt Gray and you were
saying you traveled 35 weeks of the year
you stood over time but right now it's a
little hectic because I'm traveling
every single week internationally so it
was funny because
one of my buddies has a private jet and
he says did you know the average person
only takes flights that are under three
hours and I'm looking at my most recent
flights over the last 10 flights and I
think my average is a little bit above
10 hours
wow so I'm flying a lot it's very
heavily International though
like I just did London I in a few days I
had to go to Germany then I think I have
to go to Dubai after that then Romania
then Dubai again and when I do these
trips keep in mind I go there I fly back
to the States I go there fly back to the
States when I was single without
children it was easier because I'll just
go from location to location which saves
a lot of time but I miss my kids and my
wife and my family also misses me so I
go back for a few days and then I'm back
on the road for the rest of it was kind
of ask actually that with a young family
that must be hard and just to
give our listeners some context I want
to put some clarity around the private
jet remark because a lot of people
would take the wrong idea from it oh I'm
playing commercial by the way I'm saying
my friend as a private devil is telling
me the average flight that someone takes
is under three hours
thank you for clarifying that and that's
something that I really like and admire
about you which I don't think
you do a lot of Justice too in your
content because you are so focused on
technical value driven content
but like I've thought about a private
jet India's roughly call it 40 hours
total round trip I'm rounding here well
it's roughly 40. all right if I get a
deal on a plane that can take me far
enough you're roughly looking at ten
thousand dollars an hour all right
because you have to keep in mind there's
costs for landing and Fuel and plane
maintenance putting up the pilots and
the crew you need multiple players when
you're going to India because it's you
need a massive plane because it's such a
far Journey
but when you just think about that just
for a minute
you're talking about that means it would
cost me four hundred thousand dollars
for a round trip
all right I'm not saying I do this but
if I wanted to splurge and go first
class on Emirates which has a shower and
everything 20 grand they're better off
donating the 380 000 to someone who
needs the money then you are to waste
three 400 Grand on
a flight that long now if I was Elon
Musk or Bill Gates it probably doesn't
matter at that point in life but I'm not
them for me I'd rather donate the money
and that's what I want to talk about a
little bit
you donate a lot of your money and your
wife specializes in this and I really
like that you guys have this sort of
combination right you're the guy who
makes the money and your wife gives the
money away a little bit like Warren
Buffett and Bill Gates so talk to us it
does not specialize in it that's what
she focuses on she's been learning quite
a bit over the years but she loves it it
makes her happy that also makes her cry
a lot and we joke because we had my
wife's donation varies a lot based on
the tear Factor my friend I joke with my
wife about this the more she cries the
more she donates she donates from her
heart I donate based on logic I'm like
oh you want the money okay you're trying
to solve poverty how much more kids were
less hungry in the last 12 months
because your efforts like I look at the
stats and the data uh and my wife
genuinely donates from the heart I'm not
saying my Approach is right or my wife's
approach is right but a combo of both of
them is you genuinely pretty good yeah
so at what point did you start donating
money clearly you're not building a long
time ago when we first did our first
interview I was donating back then I
just wasn't donating as much
approximately What proportion of your
wealth do you give away not that much
right now percentage of wealth is single
digit percentiles really tiny on an
annual basis and it's actually very low
single digit percentile just be super
clear even when I look at portion of
income I generate on a annual basis I'm
donating less than 10 of my income on an
annual basis by the time my wife and I
pass away we will end up donating close
to 100 but I do hold most my cash I'm
not the most generous person I'm not
trying to paint myself out to be a saint
I'm not that I'm capitalist just being
transparent I love making money I love
making money for the sport of it and I
don't know why but I can't stop and
sometimes I wish I could just stop and
just be that Dad who goes and plays
soccer football with my kids and goes to
the park that's honestly not me I just
love business and making more money I'll
spend time with my kids I'll do puzzles
with my kids or random stuff you're a
Gujarati is that correct I'm Gujarati
yeah so you know I should donate more
I'll donate more before we pass I keep
majority of the cash for more business
to grow and make more money and again I
should change that but it's hard right
now in my Prime when I love what I'm
doing and I hope that by me investing
more into business it compounds faster
and maybe at the end when we give it all
away and we still give some every year
but maybe at the end when we give it all
away it'll have a much greater impact my
wife is on the flip side she's like
people need it now we should give away
more of it now so you just gotta try to
find a balance I just want to thank you
for your transparency and your honesty I
really appreciate that I know you also
said in the first million podcasts that
you don't want to just give money away
to your kids which I deeply admire and
respect can you talk to us about my
biggest mistake in my life the biggest
mistake I made was I put some of one of
my businesses shares in a trust for my
children as my children are walking
around and listen but they're too young
to understand I put some shares of a
company and a trust I ended up giving
them too much at this point I don't know
what happened but in theory my kids will
walk away with nine figures each at the
age of one and three right now so I wish
I had put as much in your trust so when
I say I don't want to give him anything
some of it's already too late
I'm trying to figure out legally I can't
just
break the trust is irrevocable but that
was the biggest mistake
what they have your view is to give away
the money where it's needed most is that
right
that's right and when I made those
changes I was much younger and it was a
big mistake but live and learn yeah
right so my goal is to give it away and
for the people running the trust to also
use it for non-profit and donation
purposes and instilling that in my
children and I'm not going to be a cold
parent and what I mean but and that's
actually a bad way to put it I don't
think that if someone doesn't give their
kids anything that's not cold that's
actually a very incorrect statement of
me to say but I will give my kids
something if they need it and here's
what I mean if my kids are on the street
with no food and they're sick
you better bet I'm gonna give my house
I'm not gonna give him a house in
Beverly Hills but I'll give them a
normal house and food and shelter or if
my kids have pants and they can't afford
a treatment I will gladly pay for that
treatment Okay so
it's not like they're getting nothing
and more importantly what they don't
even understand
the amount of relationships and business
connections
that they've already met at their young
age is quite ridiculous imagine a
three-year-old and a one-year-old doing
dinner with your friends and your
friends are billionaires and they've
done this multiple times with different
people who have billions of dollars and
I'm not saying having billions of
dollars makes you great or not having it
makes you bad or good that's for whoever
else to decide but if you're looking
from a neutral perspective typically
people for that well they're usually
business owners all the people I know
who are that about the art business
owners yeah and if my kids want to do
anything in their life they're getting
to know these parents for really well
off the parents are getting to know the
kids the kids are getting to know their
kids and their kids are getting to know
us like they're building amazing Network
and Rolodex at such a young age and
hopefully they'll use it for good that's
correct you never know though time will
tell yeah and I'm still bad like the
other day I was at a jewelry store I
know the expense one was called Harry
Winston and they had a Mother's Day
present for my wife and I so for me to
give my wife and we shop there hence
they give Mother's Day present like a
gold-plated plate or whatever it was
some cookies and stuff my little
three-year-old loves jewelry and her
birthday's coming up soon I was like
what's the cheapest jewelry you have in
here and they're like this pendant for 3
500 I show it to my three-year-old and
she said I love it and she's turning
four tomorrow and I'm like you want my
honey and then she's yeah I would look
like a princess I'm like here you go so
I'm like I'm not
again I'm not a saint I shouldn't be
buying a little kid at 3 500 jewelry
piece and I bought her many pieces of
jewelry it should probably break it up
for a month and that's it but like just
see that smile on my little kid's face
and she's going to be a princess for my
birthday and I was like you go get it
honey fair enough
so let's switch back you started from
very humble beginnings and I want to
undo this million dollar this and
million dollar that and everyone's
talking about revenue and not talking
enough about profit or cash flow which
we'll touch on a little bit later but
you started cleaning toilets in an
amusement park so talk to our viewers
about that and at one point if I'm not
mistaken you were a million dollars in
debt so let's talk about the really
difficult side of business you're doing
a hundred million dollars a year now but
that's not how it always was and I want
people to hear and understand that it
doesn't happen overnight so can you talk
to us a bit about that I'm 38 that was
when I was 15 and a half I was able to
get my first job and it was for minimum
wage at that time was 5.75 cents an hour
technically they're able to pay me a
little bit under minimum wage I don't
know why maybe because I wasn't 16 and
it was cleaning restrooms and picking up
trash at a theme park and you know what
I love cleaning the restrooms because
when I clean the rush they either pay me
extra 25 cents or 50 cents an hour to
clean the toilets it was a really messy
job because of the theme park you can
imagine yeah and theme park with roller
coasters uh and big kid rollers
with little kids so I did it to make
more money I wanted a better life so you
do whatever for the cash and eventually
I tried starting some businesses my
first one was a job board failed
miserably eventually I tried to create a
cloud computing company before that was
really popular before there's Amazon web
services from my understanding maybe I'm
getting my timing off but I'm pretty
sure before AWS was big we were trying
to do cloud computing and it didn't work
out and burn a million dollars that
borrowed money and eventually had to pay
it back so it's like how'd you get
yourself out of that hole I was doing
consulting at the same time and helping
people grow their traffic on the
internet that helped a lot